:sparkles: Visualizing in RViz Tutorial (#365)
ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials: doc/tutorials/visualizing_in_rviz/visualizing_in_rviz.rst

Visualizing In RViz
===================

> This tutorial will introduce you to a tool that can help you quickly understand what your MoveIt program is doing my rendering visualizations in RViz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will introduce you to a tool that can help you quickly understand what your MoveIt program is doing by rendering visualizations in RViz.
```

Prerequisites
-------------

If you haven't already done so, make sure you've completed the steps in :doc:`Your First Project </doc/tutorials/your_first_project/your_first_project>`.
This project assumes you are starting with the ``hello_moveit`` project, where the previous tutorial left off.

Steps
-----

1 Add the dependency moveit_visual_tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Add this line to your ``package.xml`` in the ``hello_moveit`` project after the other ``<depend>`` statements:

.. code-block:: xml

  <depend>moveit_visual_tools</depend>

> Then in your ``CMakeLists.xml`` add this line to the section of ``find_package`` statements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then in your ``CMakeLists.txt`` add this line to the section of ``find_package`` statements:
```

To test that this all worked open a terminal in the workspace directory (remembering to source your ros install in opt) and then build with colcon:

.. code-block:: bash

  cd ~/ws_moveit2
  colcon build --mixin debug

2 Create a ROS executor and spin the node on a thread
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before we can initialize MoveItVisualTools we need to have a executor spinning on our ROS node.
This is necessary because of how MoveItVisualTools interacts with ROS services and topics.

.. code-block:: C++

  #include <thread>  // <---- add this to the set of includes at the top

    ...

    // Create a ROS logger
    auto const logger = rclcpp::get_logger("hello_moveit");

    // We spin up a SingleThreadedExecutor so MoveItVisualTools interact with ROS
    rclcpp::executors::SingleThreadedExecutor executor;
    executor.add_node(node);
    auto spinner = std::thread([&executor]() { executor.spin(); });

    // Create the MoveIt MoveGroup Interface
    ...

    // Shutdown ROS
    rclcpp::shutdown();  // <--- This will cause the spin function in the thread to return
    spinner.join();  // <--- Join the thread before exiting
    return 0;
  }

> After each one of these changes you should rebuild your workspace to make sure you don't have any syntax errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After each one of these changes, you should rebuild your workspace to make sure you don't have any syntax errors.
```

3 Create and Initialize MoveItVisualTools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Next we will construct and initialize MoveItVisualTools after the construction of MoveGroupInterface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will construct and initialize MoveItVisualTools after the construction of MoveGroupInterface.
```

.. code-block:: C++

    // Create the MoveIt MoveGroup Interface
    using moveit::planning_interface::MoveGroupInterface;
    auto move_group_interface = MoveGroupInterface(node, "panda_arm");

    // Construct and initialize MoveItVisualTools
    auto moveit_visual_tools = moveit_visual_tools::MoveItVisualTools{
        node, "panda_link0", rviz_visual_tools::RVIZ_MARKER_TOPIC,
        move_group_interface.getRobotModel()};
    moveit_visual_tools.deleteAllMarkers();
    moveit_visual_tools.loadRemoteControl();

> In the constructor we pass in the ROS node, the base link of the robot, the marker topic to use (more on this later), and the robot model (which we get from the move_group_interface).

Reviewer: This sentence reads a bit awkwardly. I think it's missing a comma, but even so, it sounds a bit Yoda-like. Not sure that my suggestion below is the best wording, but I'd re-word it one way or another.

```suggestion
We pass the following into the constructor: the ROS node, the base link of the robot, the marker topic to use (more on this later), and the robot model (which we get from the move_group_interface).
```

> Next we make a call to delete all the markers, this clears any rendered state out of RViz that we have left over from previous runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we make a call to delete all the markers. This clears any rendered state out of RViz that we have left over from previous runs.
```

> Lastly we load remote control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, we load remote control.
```

Remote control is a really simple plugin that lets us have a button in RViz to interact with our program.

4 Write closures for visualizations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> After we've constructed and initialized we'd like to create some closures (function objects that have access to variables in our current scope) that we can use later in our program to render visualizations in RViz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After we've constructed and initialized, we now create some closures (function objects that have access to variables in our current scope) that we can use later in our program to help render visualizations in RViz.
```

    };
    auto const prompt = [&moveit_visual_tools](auto text) {
      moveit_visual_tools.prompt(text);
    };
    auto const draw_trajectory_tool_path =
        [&moveit_visual_tools,
         jmg = move_group_interface.getRobotModel()->getJointModelGroup(
             "panda_arm")](auto const trajectory) {
          moveit_visual_tools.publishTrajectoryLine(trajectory, jmg);
        };

These three closures each capture ``moveit_visual_tools`` by reference and the last one captures a pointer to the joint model group object we are planning with.
Each of these call a function on ``moveit_visual_tools`` that changes something in RViz.
The first one, ``draw_title`` adds text one meter above the base of the robot.
This is a useful way to show the state of your program from a high level.
The second one calls a function called ``prompt``.
This function blocks your program until the user presses the ``next`` button in RViz.
This is helpful for stepping through a program when debugging.
The last one draws the tool path of a trajectory that we have planned.
This is often helpful for understanding a planned trajectory from the perspective of the tool.

> You might be asking yourself why we would create lambdas like this and the reason is simply to make the code that comes later easier to read and understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be asking yourself why we would create lambdas like this, and the reason is simply to make the code that comes later easier to read and understand.
```

As your write software it is often helpful to break up your functionality into named functions which can be easily reused and tested on their own.
You will see in the next section how we use these functions we created.

5 Visualize the steps of your program
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Here I've augmented the code in the middle of your program with some new code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we'll augment the code in the middle of your program.
```

Update your code for planning and executing to include these new features:

.. code-block:: C++

    // Set a target Pose
    auto const target_pose = [] {
      geometry_msgs::msg::Pose msg;
      msg.orientation.w = 1.0;
      msg.position.x = 0.28;
      msg.position.y = -0.2;
      msg.position.z = 0.5;
      return msg;
    }();
    move_group_interface.setPoseTarget(target_pose);

    // Create a plan to that target pose

>     prompt("Press 'next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to plan");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    prompt("Press 'Next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to plan");
```

    draw_title("Planning");
    moveit_visual_tools.trigger();
    auto const [success, plan] = [&move_group_interface] {
      moveit::planning_interface::MoveGroupInterface::Plan msg;
      auto const ok = static_cast<bool>(move_group_interface.plan(msg));
      return std::make_pair(ok, msg);
    }();

    // Execute the plan
    if (success) {
      draw_trajectory_tool_path(plan.trajectory_);
      moveit_visual_tools.trigger();

>       prompt("Press 'next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to execute");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      prompt("Press 'Next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to execute");
```

Lastly, build your project again to make sure all the code additions are correct.

.. code-block:: bash

  cd ~/ws_moveit2
  source /opt/ros/rolling/setup.bash
  colcon build --mixin debug

:codedir:`Here is a copy of the full hello_moveit.cpp source<tutorials/visualizing_in_rviz/hello_moveit.cpp>`.

6 Enable visualizations in RViz
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open a new terminal, source the workspace, and then start the demo launch file that opens RViz.

.. code-block:: bash

  cd ~/ws_moveit2
  source install/setup.bash
  ros2 launch moveit2_tutorials demo.launch.py

Uncheck "MotionPlanning" in the "Displays" tab to hide it.
We aren't going to be using the "MotionPlanning" plugin for this next part.

.. image:: uncheck_motion_planning.png

.. image:: unchecked_motion_planning.png

To add the buttons to interact with the prompts we added to our program open the dialog with the "Panels/Add New Panel" menu:

.. image:: panel_menu.png

Then select ``RvizVisualToolsGui`` and click OK.
This will create a new panel on the bottom left with a ``Next`` button we'll use later.

.. image:: add_rviz_tools_gui.png

.. image:: next_button.png

> Finally we need to add a ``Marker Array`` to render the visualizations we've added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we need to add a ``Marker Array`` to render the visualizations we've added.
```

Click on the "Add" Button in the "Displays" panel.

.. image:: add_button.png

Select ``Marker Array`` and click ``OK``.

.. image:: marker_array.png

Scroll to the bottom of the items in the Displays panel and edit the topic that the new Marker Array is using to ``/rviz_visual_tools``.

.. image:: marker_array_topic.png

You are now ready to run your new program with visualizations.

7 Run the Program
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In a new terminal go to the workspace, source the workspace, and run ``hello_moveit``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a new terminal, go to the workspace, source the workspace, and run ``hello_moveit``:
```

.. code:: bash

  cd ~/ws_moveit2
  source install/setup.bash
  ros2 run hello_moveit hello_moveit

You'll notice that your program has stopped with a log that looks like this:

.. code::

>   [INFO] [1652822889.492940200] [hello_moveit.remote_control]: Waiting to continue: Press 'next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [INFO] [1652822889.492940200] [hello_moveit.remote_control]: Waiting to continue: Press 'Next' in the RvizVisualToolsGui window to plan
```

Click the ``Next`` button in RViz and see your application advance.

.. image:: planning.png

> You'll see after you clicked the next button your application planned, added a title above the robot, and drew a line representing the tool path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll see after you clicked the next button, your application planned, added a title above the robot, and drew a line representing the tool path.
```
